What is needed for game to be playable:


Stage 1 (Testing and basics)[Pre-alpha]
---
Marketing
Website showing progress with weekly blogs and basic seo focusing word (MMO).
Youtube/Instagram/Facebook/TikTok shorts showcasing what has been built this week.
Patreon - being able to support project with small amounts.

Gameplay System
Player will be able to move and use camera.
Player will have HP bar shown visually.
Player will spawn with sword being able to swing and deal dmg.

Sounds
basic attack sound / hit sound / walk sound / hitting sound based on object type

Multiplayer System
Just 1 server able to join anytime.
Able to choose team (red and blue).
Friendly fire off.
Respawn option.

World Creation
Lowest texture available
Layout of fortress from boxes.
Materials focus which are scaled correctly.
Collision

(clear boundaries)

Stage 2 (Core game)[Alpha]
---
Marketing
Discord with closed alpha role and announcements.

Map
Have to create map which is viewable in game.

Multiplayer > Focus <
Closed alpha, people being able to join server when invited, opened once per week.
Push boundaries of how many players can be on single map

Gameplay
Plan of Ability tree for 4? classes (Warrior, Mage, Archer, Priest)
being able to level up to 10 and have 2 abilities which are impactful
Inventory with armoury

Animations
Abilities should have visual clues
Capturing should have visual clues
Captured objective should have visual clues

Sounds
Everything should have sound

Monsters/NPCs
Fortress defended by elite monster/guard for capturing (priority)

World Creation
Have to create map which is competitive friendly
Create safe starting zone for both teams, with middle map being battlefield.
Fortresses designed with upgrades in mind and caravans with supplies.

Mechanics
Being able to capture and defend fortresses.
Being able to upgrade fortresses.
Special events based on server time
Leaderboard showcasing achievements made in skirmish.


Stage 3 (Whole system creation)[pre-Beta]

Mechanics
3 Nations which are fighting each other.
Guild system which would implement Ranked system (special instanced battles)

Gameplay
Skill based learning curve for player with as unlimited potential as possible.
Complete ability trees and planned classes.
Meaningful battlefield and rewards.

Crafting
Being able to harvest/craft

Make sure game is in playable state.

Stage 4 (Playability)[Beta]

Everything should be completed before launch

Stage 5 ()[Launch]
Monetisation - Game played as Free 2 Play in safe zones, but battlefield, dungeons, raids locked behind subscription model. (this will make it predictable for monthly payments)

Sponsor tournaments based on subscription (Will massively increase player base)

Marketing will need to be whole team.

Archive stages and instead use patch notes.

Mostly server optimisation, bug fixes and balance.

Make it interesting by creating more modes, maps and different objectives which would rotate every 2nd week.
